SCHEDULED ARTICLE PUBLISHING - XAMPP

This step adds automatic publishing for articles saved as Scheduled.
Replace ONE existing file. Your live files and articles have not been
changed automatically.

1. BACK UP THE EXISTING FILE
C:\xampp\htdocs\ArizonaOutfits\routes\console.php

2. REPLACE ITS COMPLETE CONTENTS
Open console.txt from this delivery folder and copy ALL its contents.
Paste over ALL contents of this existing file and save:
C:\xampp\htdocs\ArizonaOutfits\routes\console.php
Keep the filename console.php, not console.php.txt.
Do not paste this into routes\web.php.
Do not replace any controller, view, model, or provider for this step.

3. CHECK THE FILE AND PREVIEW
Open PowerShell and run these commands one at a time:

Set-Location 'C:\xampp\htdocs\ArizonaOutfits'
C:\xampp\php\php.exe -l routes\console.php
C:\xampp\php\php.exe artisan posts:publish-scheduled --dry-run

The syntax check should report No syntax errors detected.
The dry run prints the current application date/time and lists articles
that are due. It does NOT change any articles.
If none are due, 0 ready is correct.
If a due article lacks its Blade body, it is skipped with its ID and
expected template name. Fix that template before retrying.
A missing template gives exit code 1 so the issue is not silently ignored.
If you have due scheduled articles, the next real scheduler run will
publish those that have a valid article template.

4. PAKISTAN TIMEZONE UPDATE
Install app.txt from the pakistan-timezone-files folder into config\app.php
and follow that folder's START-HERE.txt before starting the scheduler.
After that update, the application uses Asia/Karachi.
Enter NEW Scheduled Date values using Pakistan time directly.
The dry-run command prints the application time; schedule the test about
2-3 minutes after that printed time.
Review any older UTC schedules using the timezone guide before restarting.

5. SET UP ONE TEST ARTICLE IN ADMIN
Use an existing test article whose public page already works.
Remember its current status/publication date so you can restore them later
if you want. Existing content, categories, slug, and images can stay as saved.
Set Status to Scheduled.
Set Scheduled Date to 2-3 minutes after the printed application time.
Save the article.
Before its due time, it should not appear in the public blog listing.
You do not need more published articles to perform this test.

6. START THE LOCAL SCHEDULER
In PowerShell run:

Set-Location 'C:\xampp\htdocs\ArizonaOutfits'
C:\xampp\php\php.exe artisan schedule:work

Keep this PowerShell window open, along with Apache and MySQL in XAMPP.
The scheduled publishing command runs every minute.
Wait until the test article's due time, then allow the next minute's run.
Refresh admin and the public blog page with Ctrl+F5.
Expected:
- Admin status becomes Published.
- Publication date equals the intended scheduled date.
- Scheduled Date is cleared.
- The article appears on public lists and its page opens.
- Search/category filters still find it.
Use Ctrl+C when you want to stop the local scheduler.
Closing the terminal or shutting down the computer stops automatic runs.
The local scheduler also runs your existing queue-maintenance schedules.

7. OPTIONAL MANUAL RUN
To publish due scheduled articles immediately, without keeping the
scheduler open, run:
C:\xampp\php\php.exe artisan posts:publish-scheduled

This is a REAL run and changes every eligible due scheduled article.
Use --dry-run first if you want to preview the affected articles.
Future scheduled articles remain scheduled.
Repeated runs do not republish articles already marked Published.
If the scheduler was off, the next run catches up on overdue articles
and retains their original scheduled publication dates.

8. IF SOMETHING DOES NOT WORK
Command does not exist:
Check that console.txt was copied into routes\console.php and saved.

Skipped article / missing template:
The public body must exist under resources\views\blogs\posts.
The command uses the Template field, or the slug if Template is blank,
exactly as the public article controller does.
It leaves the article scheduled until its template exists.

Still scheduled after its due time:
Check the UTC time printed by --dry-run, keep MySQL running, and check
that schedule:work is still open. Try the optional manual command and
share its output if it fails.

No syntax errors but a database/cache error:
Share the complete error text. No migration is required by this step.
The scheduler overlap lock uses your existing Laravel cache setup.

HOSTINGER LATER
An always-open XAMPP terminal is only for local work.
Production needs Laravel schedule:run every minute through the hosting
cron feature, using the actual private application path.
Do not add a second cron if the Laravel scheduler already runs there.
We will verify the actual deployment path during the hosting phase.

VALIDATION BEFORE DELIVERY
PHP syntax passed.
24 isolated checks passed against a disposable in-memory database.
Checks covered dry-run immutability, due/future boundaries, missing
article templates, publication dates, repeated-run safety, unchanged
non-scheduled articles, 205-post batching, and scheduler registration.
The original routes\console.php hash remained unchanged.
Row-lock behavior is implemented; multi-process MariaDB concurrency was
not tested by the in-memory checks.
No article content, media, category, redirect, or revision is edited by
the publisher. Only status, publication/scheduled dates, and updated_at
are changed. Existing revision history remains intact.
Existing email-test and queue-maintenance commands are retained.

Reply PASS after installing and confirming one scheduled test article
publishes automatically, or share the command output/error.
