PRODUCT SYSTEM - STEP 2: PRICING AND VARIANT VALIDATION

REPLACE ONE FILE

1. Back up this existing file:
C:\xampp\htdocs\ArizonaOutfits\app\Http\Controllers\Admin\ProductController.php

2. Open ProductController.txt from THIS product-step-2-files folder.
Copy ALL its contents and paste over ALL contents of:
C:\xampp\htdocs\ArizonaOutfits\app\Http\Controllers\Admin\ProductController.php
Save with the existing filename ProductController.php.
This is the ADMIN controller. Keep your custom page/view files as they are.
Use this Step 2 replacement; it includes the previous Step 1 fix.

3. Open PowerShell and run:
Set-Location 'C:\xampp\htdocs\ArizonaOutfits'
C:\xampp\php\php.exe -l app\Http\Controllers\Admin\ProductController.php

Expect No syntax errors detected.
No database migration, view replacement, or timezone change is required.
If syntax fails, restore the backup and share the error.

WHAT THIS FIXES
- A blank variant Regular Price inherits the product Regular Price.
  Its Sale Price is now checked against that inherited price.
- A main product SKU cannot reuse an existing variant SKU.
- A variant SKU cannot reuse the submitted main product SKU.
- SKU collision checks compare without case differences.
- The same existing variant ID cannot be submitted more than once.
- Existing checks for variant ownership, unique option combinations,
  correct option/value relationships, and negative prices are retained.

PRICE EXAMPLES
Product Regular Price 100, variant Regular Price blank:
  variant Sale Price 90 -> accepted
  variant Sale Price 110 -> rejected
Product Regular Price 100, variant Regular Price 120:
  variant Sale Price 110 -> accepted
  variant Sale Price 121 -> rejected

These checks follow your current cart pricing rules. A blank variant
Sale Price means no variant sale; it does not inherit the product's sale
price. This step validates prices without changing that pricing policy.
Zero prices and sale prices equal to regular prices remain allowed,
matching the existing parent-product validation.

SKU EXAMPLES
Main SKU SHIRT-BASE, variant SKU SHIRT-SMALL -> accepted if unused.
Main SKU SHIRT-BASE, variant SKU shirt-base -> rejected.
Two variants with SKU BLUE and blue -> rejected.
SKU fields can be left blank if you do not assign a SKU.
Existing unique SKUs can stay unchanged when editing their own records.
If legacy records already share a SKU, assign distinct values before
saving. This step does not rename or clean existing database records.

BEGINNER CHECK IN ADMIN
Use a test product instead of changing prices on a product currently
being sold. Refresh the product edit/create page with Ctrl+F5.

1. Set product Regular Price to 100.
2. Generate a variant using your existing options, for example Size Small.
3. Leave that variant Regular Price blank, set its Sale Price to 110,
   and save. Expect a variant sale-price validation error.
4. Change its Sale Price to 90, use distinct SKUs, and save.
   Expect a successful save.
5. Edit the saved product again and verify the values stayed saved.
6. Give the variant the same SKU as the main product and try saving.
   Expect a SKU validation error. Restore a unique SKU and save again.
7. If your UI allows duplicate variant combinations, try duplicating one.
   Expect a validation error, then remove the duplicate and save again.
8. On the admin product listing, verify Featured / Not featured /
   All products still work from Step 1.

Keep your normal required product fields filled for these tests.
Changing a price or SKU to an invalid value should show an error and
leave the saved database product unchanged. If the form displays a
feedback dialog, close it and review the highlighted field errors.
No additional variants are needed solely to test duplicate IDs; that
case was verified using disposable requests before delivery.

VALIDATION BEFORE DELIVERY
PHP syntax passed. 31 isolated checks passed with a memory-only fixture
database. These reproduced the two original gaps and checked pricing,
blank/zero values, SKU collisions, ID ownership/duplicates, and option
combinations. The original controller hash stayed unchanged.
These are focused validation checks, not full checkout or concurrent
catalog-write testing. No live product was created or changed.

Reply PASS after installing and checking, or share the error text.
